# OpenShift 4 deployment using ARM templates and Azure Pipelines
Azure Pipelines driven deployment of an internal OpenShift 4.6 cluster to Azure using ARM templates and an existing VNET with user defined routing.

## Prerequisites
### Azure
* [Azure subscription](https://portal.azure.com)
* Proper Azure quotas discussed in the [OpenShift documentation](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.6/installing/installing_azure/installing-azure-account.html#installation-azure-limits_installing-azure-account)

### Networking
The installation pipeline assumes the following:
* There is a resource group, by default `networking-rg`.
* `networking-rg` contains a VNET, by default `ocp-4-vnet`, with the address space of `10.4.0.0/16`.
* `ocp-4-vnet` contains two subnets, by default `ocp-4-controlplane-subnet` and `ocp-4-compute-subnet`.
* There is a resource group, by default `openshift-1-rg`, where the OpenShift resources will be deployed.
* There is an Azure Service Principal with Contributor role in both resource groups and User Access Administrator role for assigning roles to the User Assigned Identity later.
* Upon provisioning, the cluster nodes have internet connectivity (either through user defined routing or a NAT gateway).
* The agent running the deployment is part of `ocp-4-vnet`.
* The agent running the deployment has internet connectivity.

### Self-hosted Azure Pipelines agents
The pipeline includes tasks where the installer has to communicate with the cluser, for example waiting for bootstrap complete. For this to work, the agent running the pipeline should be on the same VNET with the cluster. To achieve this, a [self hosted Linux agent can be used](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/agents/v2-linux?view=azure-devops).  
The pipeline references the `ocp-4-agents` agent pool. Currently, the agents are required to have `azure-cli` and `jq` installed.  
You can use the `00_agent.json` ARM template to deploy a self-hosted Linux agent that automatically installs the necessary tools and registers itself with the `ocp-4-agents` agent pool. The template requires a PAT and the server URL as parameters.
```
az deployment group create -g networking-rg --template-file ./templates/00_agent.json --parameters sshKey="$(cat ./ssh-keys/id_rsa.pub)"  --parameters @./templates/tags.parameters.json --parameters personalAccessToken="PERSONALACCESSTOKEN" --parameters serverUrl="https://dev.azure.com/PROJECT"
```

### Resource tags
The templates directory contains two files that are used to configure Azure resource tags.
* `tags.parameters.json` is used as a parameter file for deploying resources. All resources deployed through ARM template will receive these tags.
* `computetags.json` is used to assign additional tags to compute nodes through the machineset generated by the installer. The compute machinesets will receive tags from both files.

## Usage
* Create the resource groups and networking.  
* Create the service principal and the assign the necessary roles.  
* Create a Service connection in Azure Pipelines with the service principal, by default called `ocp-4-sa-azdo`.
* Deploy an Azure Keyvault with the following secrets:  
    - `ocp-4-pullsecret`: Red Hat pull secret for OpenShift deployment
    - `ocp-4-sp-id`: ID of the service principal used for deployment
    - `ocp-4-sp-pw`: Secret of the service principal used for deployment
    - `ocp-4-sp-tid`: Tenant ID of the service principal used for deployment
    - `ocp-4-ssh-pub`: Public SSH key to be deployed to the nodes
* Create a variable group `ocp-4-variable-group` in Azure Pipelines linking to the Azure Keyvault secrets.
* Create the agent pool and agent.


## Connectivity
The current deployment assumes no public connectivity to the cluster API and relies on user defined routing. There will be no public endpoints created. This also means that the agent deploying the cluster has to be on the VNET and must be able to resole the Azure Private DNS Zone records.  
It is possible to deploy networking resources that allow connection to the VNET from and node connectivity to the internet. This makes it possible to access the cluster. To connect to the VNET, do the following:  

Generate certificates for the point-to-site VPN access discussed in the 
[Azure documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/vpn-gateway/point-to-site-vpn-client-configuration-azure-cert#generate-certificates-1), for example:
```bash
mkdir azure-gw
sudo strongswan pki --gen --outform pem > ./azure-gw/caKey.pem
sudo strongswan pki --self --in ./azure-gw/caKey.pem --dn "CN=VPN CA" --ca --outform pem > ./azure-gw/caCert.pem
export PASSWORD="password"
export USERNAME="client"
sudo strongswan pki --gen --outform pem > "./azure-gw/${USERNAME}Key.pem"
sudo strongswan pki --pub --in "./azure-gw/${USERNAME}Key.pem" | sudo strongswan pki --issue --cacert ./azure-gw/caCert.pem --cakey ./azure-gw/caKey.pem --dn "CN=${USERNAME}" --san "${USERNAME}" --flag clientAuth --outform pem > "./azure-gw/${USERNAME}Cert.pem"
```
Deploy the `00_networking.json` ARM template that provisions the networking resources mentioned in the Prerequisites section. Make sure to use the CA Certificate generated earlier when provisioning the resources (it will take a minute):
```bash
az deployment group create -g networking-rg --template-file ./templates/00_networking.json --parameters virtualNetworkGatewayP2SRootCert="$(openssl x509 -in ./azure-gw/caCert.pem -outform der | base64 -w0)" --parameters controlPlaneSubnetName="ocp-4-controlplane-subnet" --parameters computeSubnetName="ocp-4-compute-subnet" --parameters @./templates/tags.parameters.json
```
Deploy the `00_dns_forwarder.json` ARM template that provisions a DNS forwarder which makes it possible to resolve Azure Private DNS Zone records:
```bash
az deployment group create -g networking-rg --template-file ./templates/00_dns_forwarder.json --parameters sshKey="$(cat ./ssh-keys/id_rsa.pub)" --parameters @./templates/tags.parameters.json
```
Download the Point-to-Site VPN configuration, customize it with the client key and certificate generated earlier:
```bash
curl -L "$(az network vnet-gateway vpn-client generate -g networking-rg -n ocp-4-vpn | tr -d '\"')" -o azure-gw/vpn.zip
unzip -p azure-gw/vpn.zip 'OpenVPN?vpnconfig.ovpn' | CLIENTCERTIFICATE=$(cat azure-gw/clientCert.pem) PRIVATEKEY=$(cat azure-gw/clientKey.pem) envsubst > azure-gw/azure-p2s.ovpn
```
Import and configure the VPN connection so that DNS search is done on the forwarder IP for your zone and the connection is only used for resources in Azure:
```bash
nmcli con import type openvpn file ./azure-gw/azure-p2s.ovpn
nmcli con modify azure-p2s ipv4.dns 10.4.5.4
nmcli con modify azure-p2s ipv4.dns-search ${your_dns_zone}
nmcli con modify azure-p2s ipv4.never-default yes
nmcli con up azure-p2s
```
Verify that you have connectivity to the cluster.
